Q1. What is Python?
Ans: Python is an interpreted, object-oriented, high-level programming language
    with dynamic semantics. Its high-level built in data structures, combined
    with dynamic typing and dynamic binding, make it very attractive for Rapid
    Application Development, as well as for use as a scripting or glue language
    to connect existing components together.

Q2: What are the features of the Python?
Ans:
There are many features in Python, some of which are discussed below –

1. Easy to code:
Python is a high-level programming language. Python is very easy to learn the
language as compared to other languages like C, C#, Javascript, Java, etc.
It is very easy to code in python language and anybody can learn python basics
in a few hours or days. It is also a developer-friendly language.

2.Open Source and Free
Python is an open-source programming language which means that anyone can
create and contribute to its development. Python has an online forum where
thousands of coders gather daily to improve this language further.
Along with this Python is free to download and use in any operating system,
be it Windows, Mac or Linux.

3. Object-Oriented Language:
One of the key features of python is Object-Oriented programming.
Python supports object-oriented language and concepts of classes, objects
encapsulation, etc.

4.Support for GUI
GUI or Graphical User Interface is one of the key aspects of any programming
language because it has the ability to add flair to code and make the results
more visual. Python has support for a wide array of GUIs which can easily be
imported to the interpreter, thus making this one of the most favorite
languages for developers.

5. High-Level Language:
Python is a high-level language. When we write programs in python, we do not
need to remember the system architecture, nor do we need to manage the memory.

6. Extensible feature:
Python is a Extensible language. We can write us some Python code into C or C++
language and also we can compile that code in C/C++ language.

7.Python is Portable language:
Python language is also a portable language. For example, if we have python
code for windows and if we want to run this code on other platforms such as
Linux, Unix, and Mac then we do not need to change it, we can run this code on
any platform.

8. Python is Integrated language:
Python is also an Integrated language because we can easily integrated python
with other languages like c, c++, etc.

9. Interpreted Language:
Python is an Interpreted Language because Python code is executed line by line
at a time. like other languages C, C++, Java, etc. there is no need to compile
python code this makes it easier to debug our code.

10. Large Standard Library
Python has a large standard library which provides a rich set of module and
functions so you do not have to write your own code for every single thing.
There are many libraries present in python for such as regular expressions,
unit-testing, web browsers, etc.

11. Dynamically Typed Language:
Python is a dynamically-typed language. That means the type (for example- int,
double, long, etc.) for a variable is decided at run time not in advance
because of this feature we don’t need to specify the type of variable.


Q3: Where we can use Python?
Ans: Below are the some main uses of python:

    1. Web Development
      Python can be used to make web-applications at a rapid rate.
      It is because of the frameworks Python uses to create these applications.
      There is common-backend logic that goes into making these frameworks and
      a number of libraries that can help integrate protocols such as HTTPS,
      FTP, SSL etc. and even help in the processing of JSON, XML, E-Mail and
      so much more.Some of the most well-known frameworks are Django, Flask,
      Pyramid.

    2. Game Development
      Python is also used in the development of interactive games.
      There are libraries such as PySoy which is a 3D game engine supporting
      Python 3, PyGame which provides functionality and a library for game
      development.

    3. Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence
      Python has Support for these domains with the libraries that exist
      already such as Pandas, Scikit-Learn, NumPy and so many more.

    4. Data Science and Data Visualization

    5. Desktop GUI
      Python can be used to program desktop applications. It provides the
      Tkinter library that can be used to develop user interfaces. There are
      some other useful toolkits such as the wxWidgets, Kivy, PYQT that can be
      used to create applications on several platforms.

    6. Web Scraping Applications
      Python can be used to pull a large amount of data from websites which
      can then be helpful in various real-world processes such as price
      comparison, job listings, research and development and much more.

    7. Business Applications
      Business Applications are different than our normal applications covering
      domains such as e-commerce, ERP and many more. They require applications
      which are scalable, extensible and easily readable and Python provides us
      with all these features. Platforms such as Tryton can be used to develop
     such business applications.

    8. Software Development
      Python is often used as a support language for software developers,
      for build control and management, testing, and in many other ways.
